# Variable symmetry

idea is to have a continuously changing pattern which has different symmetries (over time)
represented by different subgroups of the dihedral group D_2n

start by building a lattice which records the ordering of all subgroups H <= D

Then whenever H <= K, we can move continuously from an H-symmetric pattern to a K-symm one:

    given S (a set of configurations in some space acted on by D) we transition SH -> SK by:
    write K as a disjoint union of cosets x_iH (with x_0 = 1) then transition from
    SH = V sH => V sK = V sx_iH
    by having each sh -> sx_i  as time goes from 0 to 1
    
Keep doing this with a series of zigzagging subgroups H_0 < H_1 > H_2 < ...

Start with lattice of subgroups. If we regard the cyclic group C_2n < D_2n of index 2, 
I would expect that every subgroup is either a cyclic subgroup =~= C_m of C_2n or
"dihedral" in that it's generated by one of these with a reflection and =~= some D_2m. 

have existing code to treat dihedral elements as permutations... but then
how to interpret them as linear transformations? better to store as (+/-1, k)
for a rotation by pi_k/n optionally followed by a reflection?

So plan to: Not actually use the GenerateGroup / Permutation stuff.

# Recap on dihedral groups

Symmetries of an n-gon ::= D(2n) ( Geometers call it D(n) )
= < F, T: T ^ F = T ^ -1, T ^ n = F ^ 2 = 1 >
generated by a roTation T and a reFlection F

so then, rather degenerately, D(2) = C(2) and D(4) is the Klein 4 group

OK, I have an implementation of this. Next, to calculate subgroups.
Seems best to first move the permutation stuff back in and make it work 
with this machinery - then I have more groups to test the subgroup-enumerator with
or maybe quickly redevelop the bare essentials - this code dates from 2014, can do better!

# notes for hack day:

What I did

    Started writing a program to generate snowflake-type patterns of continuously variable symmetry.
    The idea is that while you’re watching the pattern evolve, it will smoothly morph from having (say) reflection symmetry to 3-fold rotational symmetry, and back again.
    I worked out a formula to do this (based on subgroups of the dihedral group D_2n) and have been thinking about implementing it for a while
    
What I learnt

    My Scala is getting a bit rusty. In particular I had to remind myself how ScalaTest’s BeMatchers work
    The theory of the dihedral group isn’t quite as simple as it seems
    I need a subgroup-enumerating algorithm and therefore more groups to test it on
    Remastering my permutation code from 2014 improved it a LOT

adventures with dependent types: can you really not do this:

case class AnnotatedSubgroupLattice[T](
  group: Group[T]
) extends AnnotatedLattice[group.AnnotatedSubgroup]

This is because of some small print about constructors
Try using an object instead ... done.

Could use de Bruijn sequences to run a Markov chain
and make sure the entire lattice is traversed...
for now, this seems like too much work

now need: for each subgroup inclusion,
a normalized coset decomposition
( sequence of representatives that starts with 1 ).
Note we are thinking of a typical dihedral symmetry as

    (F^a)(T^b)
    with generators: F a reflection, T a rotation
    and F^2 = T^6 = 1, T^F = F^-1
    
so had better think of these as acting on points on the right
The plane is a right D_2n-set
so: right cosets or left cosets?

Also need an "inclusion cache"    
so when we generate a zigzag, it is annotated
(from the store)
... maybe best to do this as part of the 
strictlyAbove and strictlyBelow
so instead of being a Set[L] (L = lattice element)
they will be a set of "annotated inclusions" H <= K
where H or K is L, and which includes the coset reps.

add the framework to make all this typesafe,
then the machinery to calculate the coset reps... done!

Next is to use it in LocalInclusion
and then, we can start drawing things...
or at least calculating the geometry to do so

# added matrix machinery

can create/multiply 2x2 matrices
create rotation matrices
matrix representation of dihedral group is injective / homomorphic

# to draw the pictures:

pick a modulus (n where we operate on an n-gon)
construct the group
pick an initial zig 1 <= H. Then:
given K <=/>= L
take a (continuously evolving / rotating?) shape S 
(bunch of circular blobs) 
draw SK
turn SK into SL using the patented formula

have concept of Scalar, so X is one if matrices can act on it?
then circular blobs / patterns can be managed uniformly